Arman Hasan
Mrs. Baker
AP Language and Composition
7 October, 2015

	In the passage "I am a Cripple," Nancy Mairs discusses why she uses the word cripple to describe herself as opposed to other, less inaccurate words. She compares different word choice and elaborates why one does not accurately describe her as well as the other. The slovenliness of the English language makes it hard on her to choose the best fit word, thereby sticking with the side of "cripple." 
	Mairs begins her rant with discussing what word she chooses to name herself, and why she chooses so. In the passage, she says "I am a cripple. I choose this word to name me. I choose from among several possibilities..." Here, Mairs showcases cripple to be a special word. Here, cripple best describes her better than any other of the several possibilities. Here, the word cripple rises. "I made the choice a number of years ago, without thinking, unaware of my motives for doing so." Claiming that Mairs made the choice, both without thinking and unaware of her motives, shows that level of confidence she holds and strength that which she builds upon standing by her choice simply because she did not think of her motives of doing so. "Perhaps I want them to wince. I want them to see me as a tough customer..." Mairs truly expresses her strength in the beginning of this passage and confidence as she demands to be seen as a "tough customer" and "one who can face the brutal truth of her existence squarely," or in other words, to be seen with dignity and not veiled of reality.
	In the meat of her passage, Nancy Mairs shifts to a more square and dignifying reason to call herself a cripple. Wanting to use the word as a form of true honesty and preciseness, Mairs begins to explain how this becomes so. The word's value rises due to its "honorable history" vis a vis its religious significance in "making its first appearance in the Lindisfarne Gospel..." Furthermore, the accuracy with which it describes her condition, having lost the full use of her limbs, far beats any other word such as "Disabled, by contrast..." which implies any physical or mental debility . This juxtaposition hints as to why Mairs does not want to use any word other than "disabled." It hints that she does not want a word that hides the truth of her condition — a word that veils her reality. 
	Nearing the end of this passage, Mairs finally goes into the deeper understanding of why she chooses the word "cripple." In the beginning of this shift, she starts by comparing "the recently coined euphemism 'differently abled'" which manifests the identical "semantic hopefulness that transformed countries from 'undeveloped' to 'underdeveloped.'" This comparison relates the false evident realities that describes her condition to the same faulty description provided for the transformed countries; after all, "people have continued to starve in those countries during the shift." Additionally, Mairs calls her condition a reality that does not "obey the dictates of language." In other words, whatever one may call her, she still remains a cripple. To support this, she claims to "subscribe to George Orwell's thesis" in which thoughts corrupt reality. George Orwell suggests laziness in word choice can often sometimes lead to misconceptions of reality and veil the truth, claiming that "the slovenliness of our language makes it easier for us to have foolish thoughts." When describing any situation or condition, one must consider all the possibilities and their relations in correspondence with the condition. Lastly, Mairs discusses this slovenliness of the English language on a societal level in which she calls this "degeneration of the language" a "calamitous disease." Relating this degeneration of the English language to a calamitous disease, Nancy Mairs suggests that society isn't readier to use sufficient enough words that accurately describes a condition than to accept life's harsh realities, claiming "society is no readier to accept crippledness than to accept death, war, sweat, or wrinkles." "Cripple" appeals to her not only because of its honesty and preciseness, but also because of its defiance in showing any fear and weakness. 
	
